arise shine for your light has come and
the glory of the Lord is risen upon you
for behold the darkness shall cover the
earth and deep darkness the people but
the Lord will arise over you and his
glory will be seen upon you the Gentiles
shall come to your light and Kings to
the brightness of your rising lift up
your eyes all around and see they all
gather together they come to you your
sons shall come from afar and your
daughters shall be nursed at your side
then you shall see and become radiant
and your heart shall swell with joy
because the abundance of the sea shall
be turned to you the wealth of the
Gentiles shall come to you the multitude
of camels shall cover your land the
dromedaries of Midian and ephah all
those from Sheba shall come they shall
bring gold and incense and they shall
proclaim the praises of the Lord all the
flocks of Kedar shall be gathered
together to you the Rams of nabiyev
shall minister to you they shall ascend
with acceptance on my altar and I will
glorify the house of my glory who are
these who fly like a cloud and like
doves to their roosts surely the
coastlands shall wait for me and the
ships of tarshish will come first to
bring your sons from afar their silver
and their gold with them to the name of
the Lord your God and to the Holy One of
Israel because he has glorified you the
sons of foreigners shall build up your
walls and their kings shall minister to
you for in my wrath I struck you
but in my favour I have had mercy on you
therefore your gates shall be open
continually they shall not be shut day
or night
that men may bring to you the wealth of
the Gentiles and their kings in
procession for the nation and Kingdom
which will not serve you shall perish
and those nations shall be utterly
ruined the glory of Lebanon shall come
to you the Cyprus the pine and the box
tree together to beautify the place of
my sanctuary and I will make the place
of my feet glorious also the sons of
those who afflict adieu shall come
bowing to you and all those who despised
you shall fall prostrate at the soles of
your feet and they shall call you the
city of the Lord
Zion of the Holy One of Israel whereas
you have been Forsaken and hated so that
no one went through you I will make you
an eternal excellence a joy of many
generations you shall drink the milk of
the Gentiles and milk the breasts of
kings you shall know that I the LORD am
your Savior and your Redeemer the Mighty
One of Jacob instead of bronze
I will bring gold instead of iron
I will bring silver instead of wood
bronze and instead of stones iron I will
also make your officers peace and your
magistrates righteousness violence shall
no longer be heard in your land
neither waisting nor destruction within
your borders but you shall call your
walls
salvation and your gates praise the Sun
shall no longer be your light by day nor
for brightness shall the moon give light
to you but the Lord will be to you an
everlasting light and your God your
glory your son shall no longer go down
nor shall your moon withdraw itself for
the Lord will be your everlasting light
and the days of your mourning shall be
ended also your people shall all be
righteous they shall inherit the land
forever the branch of my planting the
work of my hands that I may be glorified
a little one shall become a thousand and
a small one a strong nation I the Lord
will hasten it in its time
[Music]
you